Cover Movement MoCap

This package features a collection of 30 fbx animations for a bipedal humanoid character moving along and interacting with various forms of cover.

Move Along Wall Left: Walking along a wall to the left.

Move Along Wall Right: Walking along a wall to the right.

Move Along Wall Right to Left: Walking along wall to the right then turning left.

Move Along Wall Left to Right: Walking along wall to the left then turning right. (Mirrored) 

Move to Wall Left: Walking into cover on the left.

Move to Wall Right: Walking into cover on the right.

Crouch Along Wall Left: Crouched walking along a wall to the left.

Crouch Along Wall Right: Crouched walking along a wall to the right.

Crouch Along Wall Left to Right: Crouched walking along a wall left then turning right.

Crouch Along Wall Right to Left: Crouched walking along wall right then turning left.

Stand to Crouch Left: Walking along wall to the left from a standing to a crouched position.

Stand to Crouch Right: Walking along a wall to the right from a standing to a crouched position.

Crouch to Stand Left: Walking along a wall to the left from a crouched to a standing position.

Crouch to Stand Right: Walking along a wall to the right from a crouched to a standing position.

Crouch to Wall Left: Moving into cover on the left while crouched.

Crouch to Wall Right: Moving into cover on the right while crouched.

Turning Corner: Walking along a wall and turning the corner.

Crouch Wall Lean 02 Enter Exit: Moving into and out of cover with back against the wall in a crouched position.

Crouch Wall Lean 02 Enter: Moving into cover with back against the wall in a crouched position.

Crouch Wall Lean 02 Exit: Moving out of cover with back against the wall in a crouched position.

Move Along Wall 02 Right to Left: Walking along a wall to the left, then turning around to the right, and walking along the wall to the right. Back against wall.

Move Along Wall 02 Left to Right: Walking along a wall to the right, then turning around to the left, and walking along the wall to the left. Back against wall. (Mirrored)

Move Along Wall 02 Left: Walking along a wall to the left with back against the wall.

Move Along Wall 02 Right: Walking along a wall to the right with back against the wall.

Move to Wall 02 Enter Exit: Walking into cover with back flat against the wall, then moving back out of cover.

Move to Wall 02 Enter: Walking into cover with back flat against the wall.

Move to Wall 02 Exit: Walking out of cover with back flat against the wall.

Standing Wall Lean Peaks: While standing with back against a wall, character leans out to the left then the right and looks around the corner.  

Standing Wall Lean Peaks Right: While standing with back against a wall, character leans out to the right and looks around the corner.

Standing Wall Lean Peaks Left: While standing with back against a wall, character leans out to the left and looks around the corner.

If you have any questions feel free to contact us at support@morromotion.com